# LGUI2/Game/1

This example consists of [Game/1.iss](1.iss) and [Game/1.json](1.json). It is a basic Game Controller and Window, cpoied from the ```game``` template files (see [Game/game.md](game.md)).

The game itself will do and show nothing in this example; we will just go over the template.

Run the script with ```run lern/game/1```

When you are finished, end the script with ```end 1```.

## The ```gameController``` objectdef
The ```gameController``` objectdef defines our Game Controller, providing the engine for our game. 

The Game Controller will typically be responsible for ...
* setting up the game user interface
* producing audio such as background music
* handling user inputs
* refreshing values over time (e.g. to move the player or other things in the game, apply damage or healing over time, etc)
* making sure the GUI shows the updated game state each frame

In pursuit of those tasks, our Game Controller starts with the basics.

## The ```CurrentFrame``` variable
The ```CurrentFrame``` variable is a ```float``` which stores the number of seconds since the script started.

It is first set in the ```Initialize``` method, when the Game Controller is constructed, and is updated each frame during ```OnRefresh```. The value is always equal to ```${Script.RunningTime}/1000.0}```, noting that ```Script.RunningTime``` is the number of milliseconds since the script started.

Additionally, the previous frame is stored as ```LastFrame```, in order to produce the ```FrameTime``` variable, described below.

## The ```FrameTime``` variable
The ```FrameTime``` variable is a ```float``` which stores the number of seconds since the last frame -- usually less than 1 but more than 0.

It is updated each frame during ```OnRefresh``` before calling ```UpdateGame```

## The ```OnRefresh``` method
The ```OnRefresh``` method is the basic refresh handler for our Game Controller. It is assigned as the ```onRefresh``` event handler (see [LGUI2/eventHandler-1.json](../LGUI2/eventHandler-1.json) for more on LavishGUI 2 event handlers) for our game window, as per our [Game/1.json](1.json) file. This method will therefore get called each frame, while our ```window``` is refreshing.

The responsibilities for this method in our Game Controller include ...
* updating the ```CurrentFrame``` value
* to calculate ```FrameTime```
* before calling ```UpdateGame```
* and finally updating ```LastFrame```

## The ```UpdateGame``` method
The ```UpdateGame``` method is called by our ```OnRefresh``` when some time has passed, and the game should update its values and any displays.

In this example, ```UpdateGame``` does nothing, but includes comments that suggest a simple way of calculating new positions for objects in the game.