# LERN/LS/10
This example consists of a single file, [LS/10.iss](10.iss)

This example will once again create three ```fruit```s, but this time with different ```objectdef```s based on ```fruit```, demonstrating inheritance and overrides.

Enter the command ```run lern/ls/10``` to run the example.

## Object inheritance
One defining characteristic of Object-Oriented Programming is the ability for objects to "inherit" the data structure and behavior of another type of object. 

For example, Apples, Bananas, and Cherries are each types of fruit. These types of fruit are all different from one another in many ways, but because they are all fruit, we can still call each one "a fruit". But on the other hand, a Banana is not an Apple and a Cherry is not a Banana.

We can create a new ```objectdef``` based on ```fruit``` using the ```inherits``` keyword, like this:
```
objectdef banana inherits fruit
{
}
```

At that point, a ```banana``` variable can be created and will operate identically to a ```fruit```.

Any ```variable```, ```member``` or ```method``` defined within ```banana``` will apply to all ```banana``` objects, but not to ```fruit``` in general. 

## ```member``` and ```method``` overrides
Any ```member``` or ```method``` defined in ```banana``` will **override** those with the same name from ```fruit```.

This means that the ```member ToText``` in ```cherry```...
```
member ToText()
{
    return "Override: ${Name}"
}
```
... will completely replace the ```member ToText``` that would be inherited from ```fruit```.


And if we use this as ```Initialize``` for ```banana```...
```
objectdef banana inherits fruit
{
    method Initialize()
    {

    }
}
```
... this ```Initialize``` method **overrides** the one that would otherwise be inherited from ```fruit```, and does not actually do anything. The original ```Initialize``` method in ```fruit``` would use ```This:SetName```, but this example overriden method does nothing instead.

Which brings us to ...

## Accessing base type members and methods
Any inherited ```objectdef``` is also called a **base type**, which is to say that ```banana``` is **based on** ```fruit```.

For our example ```Initialize``` method for ```banana``` above, it would be preferable to keep the original ```Initialize``` behavior, **plus** any ```banana```-specific behavior.  To do so, we can explicitly execute the version of ```Initialize``` from ```fruit```, by **type casting** ```This```.

**A type cast can be done as part of a Data Sequence**, including when the sequence is used *as a command*. To **cast an object as another type**, place the new type name within ```(``` and ```)```, like ```This(fruit)```, and continue the sequence.

  * Tip: **Using type casts with incompatible built-in types may cause a crash**. However, using type casts **between ```objectdef```s should be safe** in all cases.

```
objectdef banana inherits fruit
{
    method Initialize()
    {
        This(fruit):Initialize["Banana"]
    }
}
```

Here, when ```Initialize``` is called for a ```banana``` object, it will execute ```fruit```'s ```Initialize``` method, passing in a parameter to specify "Banana". Other things could be done before or after doing so.

# Exercises
1. Create your own .iss file...
   * With an empty ```objectdef fruit```
   * Instead of adding ```variable string Name```, give it a ```member``` called ```Name```, and have it ```return``` a value.
   * Add ```objectdef```s for ```apple```, ```banana```, and ```cherry```. For each, **override** the ```member Name```, and ```return``` a different value. (For example, in ```apple.Name```, do ```return "Apple"```)
   * Specifically in ```fruit```, add a ```member ToText``` that does ```return "${This.Name~}"```
     * Do you know why that should now use ```${This.Name~}``` (or ```${This.Name}```), when the original used simply ```"${Name}"```?




