# LERN/LS/12
This example consists of a single file, [LS/12.iss](12.iss)

This example demonstrates ```waitframe``` and ```wait``` commands, which would produce errors in any **atomic** function.

Enter the command ```run lern/ls/12``` to run the example.

## ```Script.RunningTime```
Accessing the object called ```Script``` provides data and actions that relate to the **currently executing script**, via a built-in ```script``` object type. The ```script``` type has a member called ```RunningTime``` which returns the number of milliseconds since the script started.

This example shows ```${Script.RunningTime}``` in its output demonstrate the amount of time that has passed after waiting.

## The ```waitframe``` command
The ```waitframe``` command waits until the game has prepared and is rendering a new frame. Hence the name of the command.

This command is only valid within a ```function``` -- not within an ```atom``` or ```method``` or ```member```, all of which are atomic by definition. **If ```waitframe``` is used in atomic code, the script will end with an error.**

## The ```wait``` command
The ```wait``` command waits until *at least* a specified amount of time has passed. 

This command accepts either 
1. one parameter as an integer number of deciseconds (tenths of a second, meaning 50 is 5 seconds), or
2. an ```-s``` parameter (short for "```s```econds") followed by a float (decimal) number of seconds.

## Wait precision
The precision of ```wait```, regardless of whether specified in deciseconds or seconds, depends on the amount of time it takes for the host game (or application) to prepare the next frame for rendering, known as the **framerate** or frames per second (FPS).

If the game is running at **10 FPS**, this means that it takes about **100ms** for each frame. In that case, a **```waitframe``` will last 100ms**, and **so will ```wait -s 0.001```**.

That is to say, wait times will be effectively "quantized" to the framerate interval.

# Exercises
1. Un-comment the ```waitframe``` line in ```atom tight```, and try running the script

2. Add another ```waitframe``` or two in ```function main```

3. Try changing the ```wait -s 2.04``` to ```wait -s 0.001```

4. Limit the FPS to 10 by entering the command ```maxfps -fg 10```, and then run the script again!