# LERN/LS/13
This example consists of a single file, [LS/13.iss](13.iss)

This example demonstrates the use of ```if``` to only execute some code if a condition is met.

Enter the command ```run lern/ls/13``` to run the example the first time. Then try ```run lern/ls/13 10``` or your own integer values!

## ```int``` and ```uint``` types.
An ```int``` specifies a 32-bit, signed integer. "Signed" means that the number **may be positive or negative**, or "may have a minus sign", as in ```-1```.

In practice, this means one of the 32 bits is used to indicate a negative number, instead of further increasing the value.

* **Signed** 32-bit integer (```int```): -2147483648 to 2147483647
* **Unsigned** 32-bit integer (```uint```): 0 to 4294967296

## ```if``` statement
An ```if``` statement can be used to execute the code block or line of code that follows, only if a specified condition is met.

The basic syntax looks like this:

```
if condition
   code
```

... or like this, for multiple lines of code:
```
if condition
{

}
```

## Conditions
The ```condition``` can consist of numeric values and math operators to arrive at a final ```zero or non-zero``` result. 
* If the result is ```0```, including ```NULL``` or ```FALSE```, the **condition is not met** and the conditional code **does not execute**.
* If the result is ```not equivalent to 0``` or ```NULL``` or ```FALSE```, the **condition is met** and the conditional code **does execute**.

* Tip: Check the [LavishScript math operators documentation](https://www.lavishsoft.com/wiki/index.php/LavishScript:Mathematical_Formulae) for a complete list of supported operators

In our example, we use the condition ```${value}<10``` to determine if the value is less than 10, and output a "warning" message if it is.

# Exercises
1. Add another ```if``` to compare ```${value}``` to a number higher than 10, such as ```100```, and produce different output
