# LERN/LS/16
This example consists of a single file, [LS/16.iss](16.iss)

This example demonstrates the use of ```while``` to repeat some code **while a condition is met**. In this example, we output numbers from 1 to 10.

Enter the command ```run lern/ls/16``` to run the example. 

## The ```while``` statement
Using ```while``` is much the same as using ```if```; It takes a ```condition``` and executes a code block or line of code.

Like this:
```
while ${Count}<=10
{

}
```

The difference is simply that a if the ```while``` condition was met and the code executed, the process repeats again from the top. That is, the condition is met, and once again the conditional code is either executed or not. And again, repeating from the top if the conditional code did execute.

## ```int:Inc```
To **increment** an ```int```, use its ```Inc``` method, like this:

```
Count:Inc
```

The ```Inc``` method also accepts a parameter, specifically allowing ```math```, to increment the value by, like this:

```
Count:Inc[1+1]
```


# Exercises
1. Create your own .iss file with a ```main``` function and a ```while``` loop to count from 5 to 100, by 5

2. Create your own .iss file, with a ```main``` function that has a ```while``` loop that does not end. 
   * Remember, to never end, the **```condition``` must always be non-zero**. See [LS/13.md](13.md) for hints!
   * Use ```waitframe``` in the loop, so that the infinite loop voluntarily releases the CPU, rather than using the maximum amount of CPU time allowed.
   * Add an ```atom atexit``` to ```echo``` something when the script ends
   * Run the script!
   * While the script is running, **use the command ```scripts -running``` to see a list of scripts currently running**.
   * To end your never-ending script, use ```endscript``` followed by the name of the script, **not including .iss or the path**. For example, if your script is called ```while.iss```, the command is ```endscript while```
   * You should see the output from your ```atexit```, when you successfully end the script 