# LERN/LS/18
This example consists of a single file, [LS/19.iss](19.iss)

This example demonstrates the use of a ```switch``` to **selectively execute one out of several** possible code segments, called **branches**.

Enter the command ```run lern/ls/19``` to run the example. 

## The ```switch``` statement
A ```switch``` identifies a **branch** of code to execute based on a single provided ```value```. The statement itself looks like so:
```
switch value
```

A ```switch``` is always followed by a block of braces ```{``` and ```}```, each on its own line as is the LavishScript way. The ```switch``` block is then filled with the possible **branches** of code to select from.

## Switch ```case```
A ```case``` statement specifies ```text``` to directly compare the ```value``` to. The comparison is a **case-insensitive string compare**. The statement itself looks like so:
```
case value
```

* **Note:** In many languages, a switch ```case``` value is numeric and/or followed by a ```:``` (colon) as a matter of syntax. **LavishScript treats the case value as verbatim text to compare**, including any quotes or trailing colon.

If the ```value``` matches the ```switch``` line's, then **code execution will continue immediately following the ```case``` statement**. 

Code execution will then continue downward as usual, including **any additional branches below!** To skip past the end of the ```siwtch```, **use a ```break``` statement**.

A typical ```switch``` pattern with multiple ```case```s can therefore look like this:
```
switch ${ValueToCheck}
{
    case value
        echo value matched
        break
    case value1
    case value2
        echo value1 or value2 matched
        break
}
```

## Switch ```default```
A ```default``` statement is used to specify a **default branch** to execute if no other branch was found to match the value specified by ```switch```

A typical ```switch``` pattern with a ```default``` branch can look like this:
```
switch ${ValueToCheck}
{
    case value1
        break
    case value2
        break
    default
        echo No match!
        break
}
```

## Switch ```variablecase```
A ```variablecase``` statement can be used to provide dynamic branch values, which cannot be hard-coded into a typical ```case``` statement. 

Where a typical ```case``` is intended for verbatim comparison, a ```variablecase``` is expected to contain one or more Data Sequences that must first be resolved before comparison can be performed.

A ```variablecase``` statement therefore typically looks something like this:
```
variablecase ${Value}
```


If no ```case``` statement matched, then before the ```default``` is selected, each specified ```variablecase``` is then checked in order from top to bottom. 

If a matching ```variablecase``` is found, execution continues from below that ```variablecase```, the same way as is done for a ```case``` or ```default```. Any further ```variablecase``` lines are ignored, and their Data Sequences will not be resolved.

# Exercises
1. Add your own branch to the ```switch``` by adding a ```case```, an ```echo```, and a ```break```. Run the script again, passing the value you specified on the ```case``` line as a parameter.

2. Create your own .iss file with a ```main``` function that accepts a ```string``` parameter, and a ```switch``` to selectively output something different if "On" or "Off" is passed as to the script. Use ```default``` to detect that neither matched, and tell the user to provide On or Off!
