# LERN/LS/2
This example consists of a single file, [LS/2.iss](2.iss)

Enter the command ```run lern/ls/2``` to run the example.

This is a slightly less standard "Hello World!" example. It will still use the ```echo``` command to print "Hello World!" into the console, however this time it stores "Hello World!" in a ```variable```.

## Variables
A ```variable``` is used to keep some data. Different types of data can be stored by different variables, by specifying the type. Variables also need a name, and can optionally specify a default value.

Variables are defined with the ```variable``` keyword, like this:

```
variable string TextToDisplay="Hello World!"
```

or without a default value:
```
variable string TextToDisplay
```

In either case, a ```string``` variable by the name of ```TextToDisplay``` is created.

## Reading variables
A **Data Sequence** is used to retrieve a value and *emplace* it in the command before execution.

A Data Sequence is denoted by ```${ }```, with an access sequence or name within it, like this: ```${TextToDisplay}```

Because the ```TextToDisplay``` variable contains the value ```Hello World!```, the echo line will output exactly the same thing as [LS/1.iss](1.iss).

Any number of Data Sequences can be used in the same command, for example:
```
echo "${TextToDisplay} ${TextToDisplay} ${TextToDisplay}"
```

As you might imagine, this should output the value 3 times on the same line.

# Exercises
1. Change the name of the variable **in each place it is used**, and run the script again

2. Add more uses of the variable in the same echo command, and run the script again

3. Create your own .iss file with a main function, a ```string```  and your own echo command(s). Run it!


