# LERN/LS/3
This example consists of a single file, [LS/3.iss](3.iss)

This example will produce output depending on a parameter that you supply to the script, after the filename given to the RunScript command.

Enter the command ```run lern/ls/3 "Hello World!"``` (including the quotes) to run the example.

## Function parameters
Similar to declaring a variable with the ```variable``` keyword, a parameter is defined by specifying the type such as ```string```, and then the variable name, such as ```TextToDisplay```. Parameters can also specify an initial value in the same way as variables do, with an ```=``` followed by the value.

Parameters are defined within the ```( )``` that come after a ```function``` name, like this:

```
function main(string TextToDisplay)
```

If multiple parameters are specified, each is separated by a comma, like this:

```
function main(string TextToDisplay="Hello World!", string MoreText="Goodbye World!")
```

In this case, multiple parameters are defined and each has an initial value. If not enough parameters are passed to main when called (for example, because the command was simply ```run lern/ls/3```), then any remaining initial values are retained.

## Command parameter splitting
When performing a command, such as ```run lern/ls/3``` or ```echo "Hello World!"```, parameters are split by spaces. Therefore, if you intend for one parameter to contain multiple words that are separated by spaces, the parameter must be quoted with ```"```.

Certain commands, such as ```echo```, will use every parameter given, and therefore will not *absolutely require* spaces on the parameters. ```echo``` simply turns all parameters into one long string to output. 

# Exercises
1. Run the script again with ```run lern/ls/3 Hello World!```, and observe the difference without quotes in the command!

2. Add an initial value to the ```TextToDisplay```, and run the script again but *without parameters*: ```run lern/ls/3```

3. Create your own .iss script with a main ```function``` that accepts a parameter and outputs the value.