# LERN/LS/4
This example consists of a single file, [LS/4.iss](4.iss)

This example introduces "escaping", and using the ```call``` command to execute another ```function```.

It also explicitly demonstrates the difference when parameters are quoted or unquoted, and with escaped or unescaped ```string```s.

Enter the command ```run lern/ls/4``` to run the example.

## Escaping Text
In [LS/3](3.md) we demonstrated why command parameters that contain spaces need quotes. Well, what about command parameters that contain quotes? LavishScript follows the standard practice of "escaping" quotes and other special characters with ```\```, for example ```"I'll \"LERN\" something today!"``` would produce a single parameter that contains quotes around LERN.

In this script, we use the following line to create a variable that contains quote characters.
```
    variable string TextToPass="He said, \"I don't think he's heard of SecondFunction\""
```

The ```TextToPass``` variable will contain the text ```He said, "I don't think he's heard of SecondFunction"```, including the quotes.

## Calling a ```function```
The ```call``` command is used to call another ```function```. 

It works much the same way as ```RunScript```: where ```RunScript``` takes a filename, ```call``` takes a ```function``` name!

```
runscript filename parameters
call function_name parameters
```

As always, *the same command parameter splitting rules apply*: **any parameter containing a space must be quoted**, and **any quote** in the parameter **should be escaped**.

## Escaping in Data Sequences
Or, ***"Naughty Data Sequences need love too."***

A ```string``` can be escaped in a Data Sequence by using its ```Escape``` member, like ```${TextToPass.Escape}```. This was **the** way to handle it until a recent version of LavishScript -- so most existing LavishScript code currently in the wild will be seen peppered with ```.Escape```.

The new and improved syntax, **available since Inner Space build 6651**, uses a ```~``` (tilde) character to produce an escaped ```string``` value from **any LavishScript object** in a Data Sequence. It can be chained with additional ```~``` for further levels of escaping, and can be followed by ```string``` member accesses.
* ```${TextToPass.Escape}``` is the same as ```${TextToPass~}```
* ```${TextToPass.Escape.Escape}``` is the same as ```${TextToPass~~}```
* ```${TextToPass.Escape.Escape}``` is the same as ```${TextToPass~.Escape}```

**This example should clearly demonstrate why best practice is that ```string``` parameters should be escaped and quoted!** 

Like this:
```
call SecondFunction "Call Escaped and Quoted" "${TextToPass~}"
```

# Exercises
1. Go back and run [LS/3](3.md), this time passing in a string parameter that contains quotes -- for example, 
```run lern/ls/3 "He said, \"I don't think he's heard of SecondFunction\""``` -- and compare!
    * Can you identify any change(s) that should be made to [LS/3.iss](3.iss), based on the output?

2. Replace the value of ```TextToPass``` with your own text, and observe the differences in output.

3. Create your own .iss script with a main ```function```, and another ```function``` to ```call```