# LERN/LS/5
This example consists of a single file, [LS/5.iss](5.iss)

This example plays a little game of Telephone, using the ```call``` command to execute another ```function```. One of the "hops" in this game of Telephone will get the phrase wrong (unless given only a single word), and if you've played Telephone before you can guess how that affects the next "hops".

Enter the command ```run lern/ls/5``` to run the example the first time.

* This example is affected by a bug that is fixed in dxLavish/Inner Space build 6671

## Calling a ```function```
The ```call``` command is used to call another ```function```. 

It works much the same way as ```RunScript```: where ```RunScript``` takes a filename, ```call``` takes a ```function``` name!

```
runscript filename parameters
call function_name parameters
```

As always, *the same command parameter splitting rules apply*: **any parameter containing a space must be quoted**, and **any quote** in the parameter **should be escaped**.

For example...
```
call function_name "parameter 1" "parameter two \"with quotes!\""
```
... would call ```function_name```, passing two parameters.

## Following the Telephone Game
This game of Telephone starts by default with the text ```"Hello " World!"```, including the quotes.

Hops 1 (main) and 2 will output exactly the original value. Hop 2 unfortunately calls Hop 3 improperly.

Recall from [LS/2](LS/2.iss) that a Data Sequence is processed prior to command execution, and then consider the following line from ```Telephone_Hop2```:
```
    call Telephone_Hop3 ${Phrase}
```

After processing the Data Sequence, this command becomes:
```
    call Telephone_Hop3 "Hello " World!"
```

This command has 3 parameters:
1. ```Telephone_Hop3```
2. "```Hello ```" (excluding quotes)
3. "```World!"```" (including a quote at the end)

And so Hop 3 hears, and passes on to 4, "```Hello ```" instead of the intended value ```"Hello " World!"``` (with quotes).

# Exercises
1. One of the Telephone "hops" in this example breaks everything! Fix it, and run the script again.

2. Create your own .iss script with a main ```function```, a ```string``` parameter or variable
   * Add another ```function``` with a ```string``` parameter. Have it ```echo``` the value
   * Use ```call``` to pass the parameter or variable from the main function, to the new function
   * Run it! 
   * Make sure it works with quotes within the parameter or variable string, too