# LERN/LS/7
This example consists of a single file, [LS/7.iss](7.iss)

Enter the command ```run lern/ls/7``` to run the example.

## Object-Oriented Programming with LavishScript
Object-Oriented Programming is a concept designed to allow a developer to **tie *available functionality* to a *type of data***.

In LavishScript, this is done with an ```objectdef```, short for **object definition**. An ```objectdef``` is the same thing as a ```class``` in many other object-oriented programming languages.

A valid ```objectdef``` has a name following it on the same line, and has a pair of **code block braces** ```{``` and ```}```. As with all LavishScript **code block braces**, **these braces must each be on their own line**!

Like this:
```
objectdef fruit
{    
}
```

In this example, we begin to explore the functionality of objects by creating that simply contains two ```variable```s:

```
objectdef fruit
{
    variable string Name="Apple"
    variable string Color="Red"
}
```

## Creating our custom object with ```variable```
With ```fruit``` defined as an ```objectdef```, creating a ```fruit``` variable is now done the same as creating a ```string``` variable:

```
variable fruit WhatFruit
```

This provides us with a ```fruit``` variable called ```WhatFruit```. ```WhatFruit```, in turn, contains two ```variables``` -- ```Name``` and ```Color```.

## Accessing our custom object's ```variable```s
At this point, we have a variable called ```WhatFruit```, and *nested inside* of that variable we have two ```string``` variables, called ```Name``` and ```Fruit```.

To access a nested variable, we use a Data Sequence with the name of the first variable, a ```.``` (dot), and then the name of the nested variable, like this:

```
echo Name: ${WhatFruit.Name}
```

That's is why it is called a Data Sequence: ```WhatFruit.Name``` is the sequence that leads us to the nested data we actually desired. It is essentially a look-up address, used by LavishScript to locate the desired value -- much like a postal service uses your mailing address, a web browser uses a URL, and so on.

To access a different variable from the same object, we simply use the other variable's name instead.

```
echo Color: ${WhatFruit.Color}
```

# Exercises
1. Replace the ```Name``` and ```Color``` values defined within the ```fruit```, and run the script again!

2. Rename the ```Name``` and ```Color``` variables, and try again!

3. Variables can be assigned a value with the ```=``` syntax. Try assigning a value to ```WhatFruit``` (such as ```variable fruit WhatFruit="Hello World!"```), and run the script again!
   * Did anything seem to change? Why do you suppose? We'll come back to this soon!

