# LERN/LS/9
This example consists of a single file, [LS/9.iss](9.iss)

This example will create two ```fruit```s, which both initially contain identical values. However, one will be magically transformed to a Banana instead of an Apple!

Enter the command ```run lern/ls/9``` to run the example.

## Object ```method```s
Much like objects can have specialized functions called ```member```s which can be accessed in Data Sequences like ```variable```s, a objects can also have another type of specialized function called ```method```s.

Where a ```member``` is used to **retrieve a value** from the object, a ```method``` is used to **perform an action** using the object. 

A ```method``` is defined much the same as a ```member```, like so:
```
    method SetColor(string newColor)
    {
    }
```

A ```method``` can be used as part of a Data Sequence, similar to that of a ```member```. A ```method``` call uses ```:``` (colon) where a ```member``` uses a ```.``` (dot), but is otherwise used the same.

Like this:
```
    echo ${FruitA.Member}
    echo ${FruitA:Method}
```

A ```method``` call in a Data Sequence always retains the original object (potentially with different nested values, etc) -- or results in **no object**, represented as ```NULL```.

Resulting in **no object** (NULL) will occur if either:
* the object no longer exists, for example if the method destroyed the object
* the method failed or encountered an error

A ```method``` *may* return ```FALSE``` (in all caps!) to indicate a destruction or failure condition, and cause a **no object** (NULL) result.

## Using a ```method``` as a Command
Because a ```method``` is used to perform an action, and **not** to retrieve some new value, LavishScript allows such Data Sequences to be used **as a command**. This means the ```${ }```, which is used to access the value, can be ommitted, and does not have to be used as part of calling another command like ```echo```.

Consider the following line:
```
echo ${FruitB:Method}
```

This does perform the ```FruitB:Method```. However, the ```echo``` line, after executing the ```method```, *also* retrieves the string value of ```FruitB``` and echoes it.

If the intent is not to access the value at this stage, but only to execute the method, then the extraneous behavior can be ommitted, like this:
```
FruitB:Method
```

## Passing parameters in Data Sequences
Data Sequences use an **index** syntax for parameters, surrounding with **```[``` and ```]``` brackets** and splitting with ```,``` (comma), like this:

```
${FruitB:SetName["Banana"]}
```

Similar to command parameters that are separated by spaces, **any parameter here that contains a comma must be quoted**, and of course **any parameter that contains a quote must be escaped**.

Best practice for passing a ```string``` parameter is once again to **quote and escape**, like so: 
```
${FruitB:SetName["${NameToSet~}"]}
```

## ```Set```ting a ```string``` variable
A ```variable``` created using the built-in ```string``` type provides a ```method``` called ```Set```. ```string:Set``` accepts a single parameter, which will assign the specified value to the string.

In this example, two ```method```s called ```SetName``` and ```SetColor``` are provided, which each use ```string:Set``` to apply the desired value to the right variable.

```
    method SetName(string newName)
    {
        Name:Set["${newName~}"]
    }
```

This ```method``` sets the variable called ```Name``` to the new value, and uses the **best practice** of quoting and escaping the ```string``` value.

* **Tip:** *By convention* (that is, because it is a common and expected way of doing things in LavishScript), many types of objects provide a similar ```method``` called ```Set```. It is **not** built into all objects.

# Exercises
1. Add another type of ```fruit```, and run the script again!

2. Try chaining ```method```s together as part of the same sequence, on the same line, like this: ```FruitB:SetName["Banana"]:SetColor["Yellow"]```

3. In the same chain as **Exercise 2**, try using a method that does not exist, like this: ```FruitB:Transmogrify:SetName["Banana"]:SetColor["Yellow"]```
   * Can you predict what effect this will have on the sequence?

4. With the same chain as **Exercise 3**, try adding an **empty** ```method``` with no parameters called ```Transmogrify``` to ```fruit```.
   * Can you predict what effect this will have on the sequence?

5. Finally, on top of **Exercise 4**, add ```return FALSE``` to ```Transmogrify```, and try again
   * Remember that ```FALSE``` should be all caps
   * Can you predict what effect this will have on the sequence?
