# LERN/Audio/1
This example introduces Audio functionality.

Open the file [1.iss](1.iss), and run the script with ```run lern/audio/1```. The script will play 5 seconds of music, mostly on the left channel, and then shut down on its own.

## Audio voices
An **audio voice is something that makes sound**, such as a character in a game, or "background music". Each of those things can have different characteristics, such as pitch, volumes on different channels, and so on.

**Each voice can only make one sound at a time**, but all voices can make sound at the same time. So, to play more than one sound simultaneously, you must have a separate voice for each sound.

**Audio voices can be added via** ```Audio:AddVoice[name]```, or via a LavishGUI 2 Package (see [LERN/LGUI2/audio-1.json](../LGUI2/audio-1.json)).

## Audio streams
An **audio stream** is a sound that can be played by a voice. [Many audio formats are supported via Windows Media Foundation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/medfound/supported-media-formats-in-media-foundation). 

**Audio streams can be added via** ```Audio:AddStream[name,filename]```

**Filenames specified are relative to the script's path** (or relative to the LGUI2 Package File), so if the file is in the same folder, only the filename itself is required. 

## Setting Audio voice volume
**Volumes are specified by a floating point number**, typically between ```0.0``` for silence, and ```1.0``` for full volume. Higher volume numbers can be used to amplify the sound.

Volume can be set for all channels at once with a single number, or for each channel independently. To set the volume, we use an ```audiovoice```'s ```SetVolume[#]``` method, like so:
```
Audio.Voice[music]:SetVolume[1.0,0.2]
```

Volume levels can be set for up to 32 channels, although common configurations stereo, 5.1, 7.1 have 2, 6 and 8 channels, respectively (to my understanding).

**Note: Volume level on every channel is ```1.0``` by default**, until specifically changed.

## Playing an audio stream
Playing a sound can be done with an ```audiovoice```'s ```PlayStream[name]``` method, like so:
```
Audio.Voice[music]:PlayStream[manic in repose]
```

**Alternatively, sound can be *queued*** to play on the voice *after* any other sounds have finished, using the ```EnqueueStream[name]``` method, like so:

```
Audio.Voice[music]:EnqueueStream[manic in repose]
```

Do note that **```PlayStream``` will always play the sound immediately**, even if that means stopping a sound that is currently playing, and clearing the queue of any other sounds.

## Stopping an audio voice
Stopping a sound on an audio voice can be done with the ```audiovoice```'s ```Stop``` method, like so:
```
Audio.Voice[music]:Stop
```

Stopping the audio voice while a stream is playing **will leave the stream queued**. If a ```Start``` method is then issued, the sound will play again from the beginning.

## Clearing an audio voice queue
Clearing an audio voice queue is done with the ```ClearQueue``` method, which can be chained on to ```Stop```, like so:
```
Audio.Voice[music]:Stop:ClearQueue
```

Stopping and clearing the queue is also known as ```flush```ing, a term that may be used in audio tasks (see [LMAC/audio-1.md](../LMAC/audio-1.md)) and LavishGUI 2 audio events such as in [LGUI2/audio-2.json](../LGUI2/audio-2.json).

# References
* [```audio``` type documentation](https://www.lavishsoft.com/wiki/index.php/ISKernel:audio_(Object_Type))
* [```audiovoice``` type documentation](https://www.lavishsoft.com/wiki/index.php/ISKernel:audiovoice_(Object_Type)) (may not be available yet)