# LERN/JSON/1
This example introduces LavishScript API for working with JSON values. While it will briefly introduce JSON concepts, it is recommended to visit [json.org](json.org) for the standard documentation!

Open the file [1.iss](1.iss), and run the script with ```run lern/json/1```.

## ```jsonvalue``` starter pack
This example shows the full range of JSON data types and values.

For each type, we create a ```variable jsonvalue``` and assign a value. 

A JSON parser determines the type of value based on the provided syntax:
* ```" "``` specifies a "string". 
  * **Note: The quotes for JSON must be inside any quotes for LavishScript, and escaped!**
* Integers with no decimal specify an "integer"
* Numbers including a decimal specify a "number"
* The literal values ```true``` and ```false``` speciify boolean values, each considered its own JSON type
* ```null``` specifies a "null" (no value)
* ```[ ]``` specifies an "array"
  * An array may contain JSON values (including nested arrays), each separated by a comma
* ```{ }``` specifies an "object"
  * An object may contain named *properties*, such as "name" and "color". The property name (aka "key") is always a JSON string, and the value can be any JSON value (including an object or array)
   * Properties are specified like ```"key":value```, and separated by commas. For example `"name":"apple","color":"red"`

## ```jsonvalue.Type```
The ```jsonvalue``` object type provides a ```Type``` member which gives a string containing one of: ```integer```, ```number```, ```string```, ```true```, ```false```, ```object```, ```array```, or ```null```. This specifies the type of data contained by the ```jsonvalue```, and thus how its value can be interpreted.


## Exercises

1. Change the existing default values, and run the script again!

2. Create your own .iss file, and your own `variable jsonvalue` with a default value. Echo its JSON type via the ```jsonvalue.Type``` member, and also its value.
   * Remember to follow LavishScript syntax, and the JSON syntax (including any quotes required by JSON) go within the LavishScript syntax.
