# LERN/Web/1

Open the file [Web/1.iss](1.iss), and run the script with ```run lern/web/1```.

The script will pull and output a JSON file (without saving it) from the online LERN repository.

Assuming the web request completes, the script will automatically exit. Otherwise, end the script with ```end 1``` when you give up.

## Preparing the web request
A ```webrequest``` variable is used to manage a web request, such as a GET or POST with a http or https URL.

**Before initiating the actual request, we must set the URL** and any POST parameters, and we can optionally specify to give us access to the result as a ```string```, ```json```, or ```binary```.

To set the URL, we use the ```webrequest```'s ```SetURL[url]``` method, like this:
```
WR:SetURL["https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LavishSoftware/LERN/master/LGUI2/1.json"]
```

To set the ```webrequest``` to interpret the result as JSON, we use the ```InterpretAs[what]``` method with any of ```string```, ```json```, or ```binary```, like this:
```
WR:InterpretAs[json]
```

## Starting the web request
To begin accessing the URL, use the ```Begin``` method, like this:
```
WR:Begin
```

## Web request state
The request's ```State``` value indicates whether the webrequest is ```Idle```, ```Queued```, ```Working```, ```Completed```, or ```Aborted```. The state begins as ```Idle```, and will become ```Queued``` if we call the ```Begin``` method. 

This example keeps a variable to store the last State it saw, in order to determine when the State has changed. Each time it changes, the new ```State``` is output.

If the ```webrequest``` has a Result, the Result is output as well.

This example also determines when the job is done by checking the State.

# Exercises
1. Change the ```WR:SetURL``` line to use a different URL, and run the script again
    * **Tip: If the new URL does not give a JSON value** (for example because it points to a standard web page or other type of file), **remove or comment** out the ```WR:InterpretAs[json]``` line, or change it to ```WR:InterpretAs[string]```.

2. Write your own script that 
     1. creates a ```webrequest``` variable
     2. uses ```WR:SetURL[url]``` to select a url
     3. uses ```WR:Begin``` to start the actual web request
     4. waits a few seconds for example with ```wait 50``` for 5 seconds
     5. outputs the value of ```WR.Result```

# References
* [```webrequest``` type documentation](https://www.lavishsoft.com/wiki/index.php/ISKernel:webrequest_(Object_Type))